# Clustering cryptocurrencies with Machine Learning (*Challenge 19*)

This repository contains a mini-project in which a K-means model was used to cluster different cryptocurrencies.

## Author

Daniel R. Murillo Antuna: [@dan-murillo](https://github.com/dan-murillo)

## Overview of the Analysis

In this repository you will find how an unsupervised learning Machine Learning model was applied to cluster cryptocurrencies. The purpose of the analysis was to find the best way to cluster such currencies and to evaluate how inertia and the number of features affect the analysis.

The data were prepared for the analysis, and the following method was run twice:
- Creating a ```Pandas``` DataFrame with the data to be analysed, finding the best value for 'k', clustering the cryptocurrencies with the K-means component of ```Sci-kit Learn```, and plotting the results with ```hvPlot```.

It was run twice because two different datasets were used: first, the original dataset, and second, the same dataset, but optimised with a PCA analysis.

## Q&As

As you will see in the Jupyter Notebook within this repository, the following 5 questions were answered as the analysis was conducted:

1. Question: What is the best value for k? Answer: It seems to be 4. (original dataset)

2. Question: What is the total explained variance of the three principal components? Answer: About 89.50%. (original dataset)

3. Question: What is the best value for k when using the PCA data? Answer: It's still 4. (dataset after PCA)

4. Question: Does it differ from the best k value found using the original data? Answer: No, it doesn't. (dataset after PCA)

5. Question: After visually analyzing the cluster analysis results, what is the impact of using fewer features to cluster the data using K-Means? Answer: The inertia decreased and the data points seem to be less dispersed. Having fewer features to cluster the data seems to reduce ambiguity, which leads to a better interpretation of the results. (original dataset vs. dataset after PCA)

## Contents of the repository

### The *Resources* folder:

It contains the CSV file with the data I worked with.

### The *Crypto_Clustering.ipynb* Jupyter Notebook:

It contains the ```Python``` code used for the analysis. All the code was throroughly commented, so it's easier to understand.

## Data Reference

The dataset was generated by [edX Boot Camps LLC](https://www.edx.org/boot-camps).

```#Thank you for reading me!```

## Contributing

Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.
Please make sure to update tests as appropriate.

## License

[MIT](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)
